# Code Structure

## 1. Table of Contents
- [Code Structure](#code-structure)
  - [1. Table of Contents](#1-table-of-contents)
  - [2. High Level Code Structure](#2-high-level-code-structure)
    - [2.1 `configs/` folder](#21-configs-folder)
    - [2.2 `controllers/` folder](#22-controllers-folder)
    - [2.3 `middleware/` folder](#23-middleware-folder)
    - [2.4 `models/` folder](#24-models-folder)
    - [2.5 `routes/` folder](#25-routes-folder)
    - [2.6 `server.ts` file](#26-serverts-file)
    - [2.7 `services/` folder](#27-services-folder)
    - [2.8 `ts-types.d.ts` file](#28-ts-typesdts-file)
    - [2.9  `utils/` folder](#29--utils-folder)

## 2. High Level Code Structure
The backend code is structured under the following structure:

```
src
├── configs
├── controllers
├── middleware
├── models
├── routes
├── server.ts
├── services
├── ts-types.d.ts
└── utils
```

This structure will ensure proper organization and implementation of the application. Please refer to the sections below regarding their use and function.


### 2.1 `configs/` folder

The `configs/` folder defines all necessary configurations for the server. This includes database conneciton, environment variables, constants, logging and more.

### 2.2 `controllers/` folder

The `controllers/` folder holds all controllers for different models. Each controller file defines the API handlers that are then used by the `routes/` folder to define where these controllers will be handling the network requests.

### 2.3 `middleware/` folder

The Middleware are functions executing before the request is handled. A typical example of a middleware is the JSON middleware converting the request body to a json. This ensures that before executing the controller to handle the request, the JSON middleware converts the request to a JSON object, and reducing code duplication for it. 

The same applies for authentication, sessions and more.

### 2.4 `models/` folder

The `models/` folder defines all entities required for the server and their attributes that can be found in the database. These models could include Users, Tickets, and more.

### 2.5 `routes/` folder

The routes folder defines the API paths for the controllers. For example, creating a user would be defined as a POST request under /api/users/.

By default, all routes are defined under the `/api/` route. This is specifically designed so that confusion does not happen in production environment.

Currently, the [`/backend/src/routes/api.ts`](/backend/src/routes/api.ts) takes all the routes from the [`/backend/src/routes/user.ts`](/backend/src/routes/user.ts) route, and adds them under the `/api/`. This way we can effectively separate all kinds of routes with their own respective groupings.

### 2.6 `server.ts` file

Main entrypoint of the server, everything starts from this file. This server.ts file configures, and starts up the server at the specified port.

### 2.7 `services/` folder

The `services` folder contains all possible services to be used with the application. This includes the database functions to perform CRUD operations, as well as the Stripe API functions.

### 2.8 `ts-types.d.ts` file

This file contains type definitions for typescript. It is not very important, but may be useful when changing the types of certain libraries. It is a purely TypeScript file therefore it is not transpiled into Node.js in production.

### 2.9  `utils/` folder

The `utils/` folder contains many utilities functions. You may use the `utils/` function if a useful function could be used in other places. 
The `utils/` folder enforces the [Servant Design Pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Servant_(design_pattern)) under the [Behavioral Pattern Types](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_design_pattern#Behavioral_patterns).

A current example of a util function is the [`/backend/src/utils/hash.ts`](/backend/src/utils/hash.ts)