# Environment Variables

## 1. Table of Contents
- [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
  - [1. Table of Contents](#1-table-of-contents)
  - [2. Required Environment Variables](#2-required-environment-variables)
  - [3. Optional Environment Variables](#3-optional-environment-variables)
  - [4. Production Environment Variables](#4-production-environment-variables)

## 2. Required Environment Variables
You may find all the required environment variables under the [`backend/.env.example`](/backend/.env.example) file. 

1. `DB_CONN_STRING`: Defines the API key necessary to connect to the MongoDB Database.
2. `DB_NAME`: Defines the database name for which the data is currently stored or to be stored.


## 3. Optional Environment Variables
1. `PORT`: Defines which port number the server will be running. 

**Warning**: Changing the port number may affect development experience as the front end server is configured to communicate with the server on port `3000`. Therefore, in development mode, if you desire to change the port to another value, make sure this value is matched on the front end as well.


## 4. Production Environment Variables
1. `SESSION_SECRET`: Secret String used as a secret key for JWT Session tokens. This session secret would need to be generated using OpenSSL library: For example on Linux: `openssl rand -base64 32` would suffice in creating the secret.

2. `NODE_ENV`: This variable defines which environment the server is executing. Usually being empty defaults to development environment. However, setting it to `"production"` will make the server run in production mode.

3. `HTTPS`: Defines if the application uses HTTPS for network requests. If so, defining it to any value like "true" or "T" would suffice. So long as it is not empty, it will define the variable as `true` in the code.

4. `JWT_SECRET`: Similarly to the `SESSION_SECRET`, this environment variable needs to be generated.